Acd 600 (#15)
Actindo-AG/Documentation: Taxes/Operation/01_ManageDecisionMatrix.md

4. Click the *Ship-to country* drop-down list and select the appropriate option. Use the drop-down list on the left to select a group of countries or the one on the right to select an individual country. As a group of countries, only the **EU - European Union** option is available. In the drop-down list of individual countries, all available countries in the system are displayed. When a group of countries is selected, the drop-down list on the right is locked.

5. If necessary, click the *Ship-to postcode* drop-down list and select the appropriate option. The following options are available:

  - **Range**  
  Select this option to specify a numeric postcode range, for example 27498 or 52001-52006.
  - **Regex**  
  Select this option to specify a postcode containing alphanumeric characters with regular expressions, for example /^BT.*/. For detailed information about regular expressions, see https://regex101.com/.

> > [Info] This feature can be used to define special tax regimes within a territory, such as that of Northern Ireland in the United Kingdom or Helgoland in Germany. For detailed information, see [Define tax exceptions on ZIP code level](#define-tax-exceptions-on-ZIP-code-level).

Reviewer: The field to the right of the *Ship-to postcode* drop-down list is unlocked.

> 6. Enter the applicable postcode range or regular expression in the *Ship-to postcode* field on the right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Enter the applicable postcode range or regular expression in the unlocked field on the right of the *Ship-to postcode* drop-down list.
```

7. If necessary, click the *Net value of goods smaller than* drop-down list and select the applicable currency.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The field to the right of the *Net value of goods smaller than* drop-down list is unlocked.
```

> 7. If necessary, click the *Net value of goods smaller than* drop-down list and select the applicable currency.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. If necessary, click the *Net value of goods smaller than* drop-down list and select the applicable currency. All available currencies are displayed in the list.      
The field to the right of the *Net value of goods smaller than* drop-down list is unlocked.
```

> 8. Enter the applicable amount using the keyboard or the increase and decrease arrows in the *Net value of goods smaller than* field on the right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Enter the applicable amount using the keyboard or the increase and decrease arrows in the field on the right of the *Net value of goods smaller than* drop-down list.
```

#### Procedures

*Taxes > Settings > Tab DECISION MATRIX*

![Decision matrix](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/DecisionMatrix/DecisionMatrix.png "[Decision matrix]")

1. Click the *VAT ID* drop-down list and select a different option, if necessary.

2. Click the *Country of origin* drop-down list on the left and deselect the selected group of countries, if necessary. As a group of countries, only the **EU - European Union** option is available. When no group of countries is selected, the drop-down list on the right is unlocked. Click the drop-down list on the right to select an individual country.

3. Click the *Ship-to county* drop-down list on the left to deselect the selected group of countries, if necessary. As a group of countries, only the **EU - European Union** option is available. When no group of countries is selected, the drop-down list on the right is unlocked. Click the drop-down list on the right to select an individual country.

4. Click the *Ship-to postcode* drop-down list on the left and select a different option, if necessary. Click the field on the right to modify the range or the regular expression entered. Use the keyboard to enter a different value.

> 5. If necessary, click the *Net value of goods smaller than* drop-down list on the left to select a different currency. Click the field on the right to modify the amount entered. You can use the keyboard or the increase and decrease arrows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. If necessary, click the *Net value of goods smaller than* drop-down list on the left to select a different currency. Click the field on the right to modify the amount entered. You can use the keyboard or click the increase and decrease arrows.
```

## Change the order of entries

Modify the position of one or more entries to organize them from specific to general and cover all possible tax scenarios.

> [Info] The correct order of the decision-making criteria is crucial, as the system goes through the criteria in the order they are listed.

#### Prerequisites  

At least two entries have been created in the decision matrix, see [Create an entry](#create-an-entry).

#### Procedures

*Taxes > Settings > Tab DECISION MATRIX*

![Decision matrix](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/DecisionMatrix/DecisionMatrix.png "[Decision matrix]")

1. Click the ![Drag](../../Assets/Icons/Points03.png "[Drag]") (Drag) button to the left of the entry line, move the entry to a different position with the left mouse button pressed and drop it in the desired position by releasing the mouse button.   

2. Click the [SAVE] button.  
The entry position has been saved. The *Success* pop-up window is displayed.

  ![Decision matrix saved](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/DecisionMatrix/DecisionMatrixSaved.png "[Decision matrix saved]")

> 3. If necessary, repeat the steps **1** and **2** with all entries that need to be repositioned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If necessary, repeat the steps **1** and **2** for all entries that need to be repositioned.
```

## Delete an entry

Delete an entry that is no longer applicable.  

> [Warning] Be aware that any deletion is permanent and cannot be undone.

#### Prerequisites  

An entry has been created in the decision matrix, see [Create an entry](#create-an-entry).

>   > [Warning] Be aware that the deletion may have far-reaching consequences for the proper functioning of the system, as the *Taxes* module interacts with the *Invoicing* and *Accounting* modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > [Warning] Be aware that the deletion may have far-reaching consequences for the proper functioning of the system, as the *Taxes* module interacts with the *Order management* and *Accounting* modules.
```

#### Procedures

*Taxes > Settings > Tab DECISION MATRIX*

![Decision matrix](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/DecisionMatrix/DecisionMatrix.png "[Decision matrix]")

1. Click the ![Delete](../../Assets/Icons/Trash08.png "[Delete]") (Delete) button to the right of the entry to be deleted.  
  The entry is removed from the list.

2. Click the [SAVE] button.  
The entry has been deleted. The *Success* pop-up window is displayed.  

  ![Decision matrix saved](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/DecisionMatrix/DecisionMatrixSaved.png "[Decision matrix saved]")

## Define a tax delivery threshold

The decision matrix can be configured to specify tax delivery thresholds in different EU countries.  

#### Prerequisites  

> - All applicable tax rates have been defined for delivery thresholds, see [Define the tax rates for delivery thresholds](../Integration/01_ManageTaxRates.md#define-the-tax-rates-for-delivery-thresholds).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All applicable tax rates have been defined for delivery thresholds, see [Define the tax rates for delivery thresholds](../Integration/01_ManageTaxRates.md#define-the-tax-rates-for-delivery-thresholds).
```

#### Procedures

*Taxes > Settings > Tab DECISION MATRIX*

![Decision matrix](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/DecisionMatrix/DecisionMatrix.png "[Decision matrix]")

1. Click the ![Add](../../Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button in the upper left corner.   
  A new data entry line is displayed.

2. Click the *VAT ID* drop-down list and select **No**, as the end customer must be a private individual.

3. Click the *Country of origin* drop-down list on the right and select the country where the product is shipped from. The *Country of origin* drop-down list on the left must remain blank (**Any**).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [Info] To change the selection of a drop-down list back to **Any**, reselect the already selected option in the drop-down list.
```

4. Click the *Ship-to country* drop-down list on the right to select the country where the product is to be shipped to. The *Ship-to country* drop-down list on the left must remain blank (**Any**).

> 

Reviewer: > [Info] To change the selection of a drop-down list back to **Any**, reselect the already selected option in the drop-down list.

> 5. If necessary, click the *Ship-to postcode* drop-down list on the left and select the appropriate option. Specify a postcode in the field on the right. For detailed information, see [Define tax exceptions on ZIP code level](#define-tax-exceptions-on-ZIP-code-level).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. If necessary, click the *Ship-to postcode* drop-down list and select the appropriate option. Specify a postcode in the field unlocked on the right of the *Ship-to postcode* drop-down list. For detailed information, see [Define tax exceptions on ZIP code level](#define-tax-exceptions-on-ZIP-code-level).
```

> 6. If necessary, click the *Net value of goods smaller than* drop-down list and select the applicable currency. Enter the applicable amount using the keyboard or the increase and decrease arrows on the right.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. If necessary, click the *Net value of goods smaller than* drop-down list and select the applicable currency. Enter the applicable amount in the unlocked field on the right of the *Net value of goods smaller than* drop-down list by using the keyboard or by clicking the increase and decrease arrows on the right of the field.   
```

> 7. Click the *Tax zone* drop-down list and select the applicable tax zone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Click the *Tax zone* drop-down list and select the applicable tax zone. All available tax zones are displayed in the list.
```

8. Click the [SAVE] button.  

> A pop-up window confirms that the decision matrix has been saved. The new entry has been saved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The decision matrix has been saved. A pop-up window is displayed.
```

  ![Decision matrix saved](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/DecisionMatrix/DecisionMatrixSaved.png "[Decision matrix saved]")

> 9. Repeat this procedure to configure one by one all the applicable tax scenarios depending on your business needs.
> 
> 10. If it is necessary to change the position of an entry in the decision matrix, see [Change the order of entries](#change-the-order-of-entries).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Repeat all steps to configure one by one all the applicable tax scenarios depending on your business needs. If it is necessary to change the position of an entry in the decision matrix, see [Change the order of entries](#change-the-order-of-entries).
```

#### Procedures

*Taxes > Settings > Tab DECISION MATRIX*

![Decision matrix](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/DecisionMatrix/DecisionMatrix.png "[Decision matrix]")

1. Click the ![Add](../../Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button in the upper left corner.   
  A new data entry line is displayed.

2. Click the *VAT ID* drop-down list and select the appropriate option. The following options are available:

  - **Yes**  
  The end customer is a company and, therefore, has a VAT ID number (business-to-business transaction).
  - **No**  
  The end customer is a private individual and, therefore, has no VAT ID number (business-to-customer transaction).

3. Click the *Country of origin* drop-down list and select the appropriate option. Use the drop-down list on the left to select a group of countries or the one on the right to select an individual country. As a group of countries, only the **EU - European Union** option is available. In the drop-down list of individual countries, all available countries in the system are displayed. When a group of countries is selected, the drop-down list on the right is locked.

> 4. Click the *Ship-to country* drop-down lists and select **Any** on the left and the country where the product is to be shipped to on the right.  

Reviewer: vgl. in procedure davor: **Any** kann ja nicht richtig gewählt werden. Wie in vorheriger Prozedur beschreiben

5. Click the *Ship-to postcode* drop-down list and select the appropriate option. The following options are available:

  - **Range**  
  Select this option to specify a numeric postcode range, for example 27498 or 52001-52006.
  - **Regex**  
  Select this option to specify a postcode containing alphanumeric characters with regular expressions, for example /^BT.*/. For detailed information about regular expressions, see https://regex101.com/.

6. Enter a postcode range or a regular expression to define a specific tax exception area in the selected country.

7. If necessary, click the *Net value of goods smaller than* drop-down list and select the applicable currency. Enter the applicable amount using the keyboard or the increase and decrease arrows on the right.

> 

Reviewer: vgl. mit procedure davor -> übernehmen.

8. Click the *Tax zone* drop-down list to select the applicable tax zone.

9. Click the [SAVE] button.  

> A pop-up window confirms that the decision matrix has been saved.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The decision matrix has been saved. The **Success** pop-up window is displayed.
```

[!!Accounting](RetailSuiteAccounting)  
[!!Fakturierung](RetailSuiteFaktBase)  
[!!User Interface Decision matrix](../UserInterface/01b_DecisionMatrix.md)  
[!!Manage the tax rates](../Integration/01_ManageTaxRates.md)  
[!!Manage the tax classes](../Integration/02_ManageTaxClasses.md)  
[!!Manage the tax zones](../Integration/03_ManageTaxZones.md)  

# Manage the decision matrix

> The decision matrix is designed to help the system decide which tax zone, and therefore which tax rate, is applicable to an order. The decision matrix consists of a list of decision-making criteria based on the information provided by the *Invoicing* module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The decision matrix is designed to determine which tax zone, and therefore which tax rate, is applicable to an order. The decision matrix consists of a list of decision-making criteria based on the information provided by the *Invoicing* module.
```

The correct order of the decision-making criteria is crucial, as the system goes through the criteria in the order they are listed, starting from the top, and stops checking them as soon as a matching criterion is found. This means, that the criteria must be organized from specific to general to cover all possible relevant cases.

## Create an entry

Create an entry to define a new tax zone.

#### Prerequisites  

- An applicable tax class is created, see [Create a tax class](../Integration/02_ManageTaxClasses.md#create-a-tax-class).
- An applicable tax zone is created, see [Create a tax zone](../Integration/03_ManageTaxZones.md#create-a-tax-zone).

#### Procedures

*Taxes > Settings > Tab DECISION MATRIX*

![Decision matrix](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/DecisionMatrix/DecisionMatrix.png "[Decision matrix]")

1. Click the ![Add](../../Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button in the upper left corner.   

>   A new data entry line is displayed.

Reviewer: data entry line? oder eher row?

Author: Ich habe in weiter unten auch data entry line verwendet, wie auch in Tax classes und Tax zones. Wir können es aber durchgängig zu row ändern, oder besprechen, was sinnvoller ist. Beide scheinen üblich zu sein, laut Google/DeepL. ;)

Reviewer: Dann lassen wir es so :)

2. Click the *VAT ID* drop-down list and select the appropriate option. The following options are available:

  - **Yes**: The end customer is a company and, therefore, has a VAT ID number (business-to-business transaction).
  - **No**: The end customer is a private individual and, therefore, has no VAT ID number (business-to-customer transaction).

>   - **Any**: Wildcard; any value is accepted.

Reviewer: "Any" ist keine option in der drop-down liste, sondern wird nur dann angezeigt, wenn weder "Yes" noch "No" ausgewählt ist.

> 3. Click the *Country of origin* drop-down list(s) and select the appropriate option(s). Use the drop-down list on the left to select a group of countries and the one on the right to select an individual country.
> 
>   > [Info] The current version only provides the option **EU - European Union** as a group of countries. When a group of countries is selected, the drop-down list on the right is grayed out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click the *Country of origin* drop-down list and select the appropriate option. Use the drop-down list on the left to select a group of countries or the one on the right to select an individual country. As a group of countries, only the  **EU - European Union** option is available. In the drop-down list of individual countries, all available countries in the system are displayed. When a group of countries is selected, the drop-down list on the right is locked.
```

> 4. Click the *Ship-to country* drop-down list(s) and select the appropriate option(s). Use the drop-down list on the left to select a group of countries and the one on the right to select an individual country.
> 
>   > [Info] The current version only provides the option **EU - European Union** as a group of countries. When a group of countries is selected, the drop-down list on the right is grayed out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click the *Ship-to country* drop-down list and select the appropriate option. Use the drop-down list on the left to select a group of countries or the one on the right to select an individual country. As a group of countries, only the  **EU - European Union** option is available. In the drop-down list of individual countries, all available countries in the system are displayed. When a group of countries is selected, the drop-down list on the right is locked.
```

5. Click the *Ship-to postcode* drop-down list and select the appropriate option. The following options are available:

>   - **Range**: Enter a postcode range, for example, 27498-27498 to limit the criterion to a specific target area.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Range**: Enter a postcode range, for example 27498-27498, to limit the criterion to a specific target area.
```

>   - **Regex**: Use regular expressions to specify postcodes containing alphanumeric characters, for example /^BT.*/.  
> 
>   > [Info] There are many regular expressions testing tools available free of charge in the Internet, such as [Regex101](https://regex101.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Regex**: Use regular expressions to specify postcodes containing alphanumeric characters, for example /^BT.*/.    For detailed information about regular expressions, see https://regex101.com/.
```

> 

Reviewer: Hier lässt du einen Schritt aus -> Nachdem ich in der Dropdown-liste range oder regex gewählt habe, wird das Feld rechts daneben freigeschaltet. 
Dann muss ich noch die range oder den regex in einem Schritt eingeben.

>   For detailed information about this function, see [Define tax exceptions on ZIP code level](#define-tax-exceptions-on-ZIP-code-level).

Reviewer: Worauf bezieht sich das? Welche Funktion ist gemeint? Erkenne den Zusammenhang nicht...

> 6. Click the *Net value of goods smaller than* drop-down list and select the applicable currency. If necessary, specify an amount using the keyboard or the increase and decrease arrows on the right.

Reviewer: Wenn ich eine Währung auswähle, ist der zweite Schritt, einen Betrag auszuwählen nicht optional, sondern zwingend nötig - ansonsten brauche ich ja keine währung wählen. Das aber, wie beim ship-to postcode in zwei schritten beschreiben.

7. Click the *Tax zone* drop-down list and select the applicable tax zone.

8. Click the [SAVE] button.  

> A pop-up window confirms that the decision matrix has been saved. The new entry has been saved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new tax rule has been saved. The *Success* pop-up window is displayed.
```
tax rule?

  ![Decision matrix saved](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/DecisionMatrix/DecisionMatrixSaved.png "[Decision matrix saved]")

## Edit an entry

> Edit an entry to modify any of the configured parameters or to change its position in the decision matrix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Edit an entry to modify any of the configured parameters or change its position in the decision matrix.
```

#### Prerequisites  

An entry in the decision matrix is created, see [Create an entry](#create-an-entry).

#### Procedures

*Taxes > Settings > Tab DECISION MATRIX*

![Decision matrix](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/DecisionMatrix/DecisionMatrix.png "[Decision matrix]")

> 1. Click the drop-down list to be edited.  
> The selected field becomes active and the corresponding drop-down list is displayed.
> 
> 2. Select a different option from the drop-down list.  
> The newly selected option is displayed in the field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the drop-down list to be edited in the desired row of the decision matrix and select a different option in the drop-down list.  
The newly selected option is displayed in the drop-down list.
```

> 3. If an option from a drop-down list is already selected, click the selected option again to deselect it.  
> The option **Any** (wildcard) is displayed in the field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > [Info] If an option from a drop-down list is already selected, click the selected option again to deselect it. In consequence, the option **Any** (wildcard) is displayed in the drop-down list.
```

4. Click the *Ship-to postcode* drop-down list on the left to select a different option, if necessary, and/or the field on the right to modify the range or the regular expression. Use the keyboard to enter a different value.

5. Click the *Net value of goods smaller than* drop-down list on the left to select a different currency, if necessary, and/or the field on the right to modify the net value amount entered. You can use the keyboard or the increase and decrease arrows.

6. Click the *Tax zone* drop-down list to select a different applicable tax zone.

7. To modify the entry position in the matrix, click the ![Drag](../../Assets/Icons/Points03.png "[Drag]") (Drag) button to the left of the entry line, move the entry to a different position with the left mouse button pressed and drop it in the desired position by releasing the mouse button.   

>   > [Info] It is important to remember that the correct order of the decision-making criteria is crucial, as the system goes through the criteria in the order they are listed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > [Info] Note that the correct order of the decision-making criteria is crucial, as the system goes through the criteria in the order they are listed.
```

8. Click the [SAVE] button.  
A pop-up window confirms that the decision matrix has been saved. The edited entry has been saved.

>   ![Decision matrix saved](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/DecisionMatrix/DecisionMatrixSaved.png "[Decision matrix saved]")

Reviewer: Das ist etwas durcheinander. Erst gibt es ein paar Schritte, in denen du generell von irgendwelchen Drop-down-Listen sprichst und dann gehst du fast alle listen nochmal einzeln durch. Entweder du hältst es allgemeingültig, oder du gehst auf alle listen bzw. felder in einem gesonderten Schritt ein. 

Ganz raus lassen und in eine eigene Prozedur stecken würde ich den schritt 7. (vielleicht ## edit the decision matrix ### edit an entry  ### change the order of entries?!)

## Delete an entry

> Delete a entry that is no longer applicable.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delete an entry that is no longer applicable.  
```

> [Warning] Be aware that any deletion is permanent and cannot be undone.

#### Prerequisites  

An entry in the decision matrix is created, see [Create an entry](#create-an-entry).

#### Procedures

*Taxes > Settings > Tab DECISION MATRIX*

![Decision matrix](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/DecisionMatrix/DecisionMatrix.png "[Decision matrix]")

> 1. Select the entry you want to delete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  > [Warning] Be aware that the deletion may have far-reaching consequences for the proper functioning of the system, as the *Taxes* module interacts with the *Invoicing* and *Accounting* modules. In case of doubt, contact our customer support.

2. Click the ![Delete](../../Assets/Icons/Trash08.png "[Delete]") (Delete) button to the right of the entry to be deleted.  

>   The entry is deleted from the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The entry is removed from the list.
```

3. Click the [SAVE] button.  

> A pop-up window confirms that the decision matrix has been saved.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The entry has been deleted. The *Success* pop-up window is displayed.  
```

  ![Decision matrix saved](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/DecisionMatrix/DecisionMatrixSaved.png "[Decision matrix saved]")

> 

Reviewer: Den Rest dieses Dokuments schaue ich mir nach deinem Austausch mit Flo an.

[!!Accounting](RetailSuiteAccounting)  
[!!User Interface Decision matrix](../UserInterface/01b_DecisionMatrix.md)  
[!!Manage the tax rates](../Integration/01_ManageTaxRates.md)  
[!!Manage the tax classes](../Integration/02_ManageTaxClasses.md)  
[!!Manage the tax zones](../Integration/03_ManageTaxZones.md)  

# Manage the decision matrix

The decision matrix is designed to determine which tax zone, and therefore which tax rate, is applicable to an order. The decision matrix consists of a list of decision-making criteria based on the information provided by the *Order management* module.

Taking into account the order confirmation and the delivery note, the *Order management* module provides the *Taxes* module with the following details: 
* country of origin (determined by the country of the source warehouse with fallback to the tenant country)
* ship-to country
* ship-to postcode

> * VAT ID set in case of B2B-Orders

Author: ```suggestion
* VAT ID (set in case of B2B orders)
```

> * VAT ID (set in case of B2B orders)

Author: ```suggestion
* VAT ID (set in case of B2B orders)   
```

> * VAT ID (set in case of B2B orders)   

Author: ```suggestion
* VAT ID (set in case of B2B orders)   

```

This means, that the criteria must be organized from specific to general to cover all possible relevant cases.

## Create an entry

Create an entry to determine a new tax zone.

#### Prerequisites  

- An applicable tax class has been created, see [Create a tax class](../Integration/02_ManageTaxClasses.md#create-a-tax-class).
- An applicable tax zone has been created, see [Create a tax zone](../Integration/03_ManageTaxZones.md#create-a-tax-zone).
- An applicable tax rate has been created, see [Create a tax rate](../Integration/01_ManageTaxRates.md#create-a-tax-rate).

#### Procedures

*Taxes > Settings > Tab DECISION MATRIX*

![Decision matrix](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/DecisionMatrix/DecisionMatrix.png "[Decision matrix]")

1. Click the ![Add](../../Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button in the upper left corner.   
  A new data input line is displayed.

2. Click the *VAT ID* drop-down list and select the appropriate option. In this case, the VAT ID refers to the buyer's VAT ID number. The following options are available:

  - **Yes**  

>   Select this option if the end customer is a company and, therefore, has a VAT ID number (business-to-business transaction).

Author: ```suggestion
  Select this option if the end customer is a company and, therefore, has a VAT ID number (B2B transaction).
```

  - **No**  

>   Select this option if the end customer is a private individual and, therefore, has no VAT ID number (business-to-customer transaction).

Author: ```suggestion
  Select this option if the end customer is a private individual and, therefore, has no VAT ID number (B2C transaction).
```

## Define tax exceptions on ZIP code level

Some areas within a territory have special tax regulations. This is the case, for example, of Helgoland in Germany or Northern Ireland in the United Kingdom.

These tax exceptions can be defined using the *Ship-to postcode* fields.

#### Prerequisites  

- An applicable tax class has been created, see [Create a tax class](../Integration/02_ManageTaxClasses.md#create-a-tax-class).
- An applicable tax zone has been created, see [Create a tax zone](../Integration/03_ManageTaxZones.md#create-a-tax-zone).
- An applicable tax rate has been created, see [Create a tax rate](../Integration/01_ManageTaxRates.md#create-a-tax-rate).

#### Procedures

*Taxes > Settings > Tab DECISION MATRIX*

![Decision matrix](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/DecisionMatrix/DecisionMatrix.png "[Decision matrix]")

1. Click the ![Add](../../Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button in the upper left corner.   
  A new data input line is displayed.

2. Click the *VAT ID* drop-down list and select the appropriate option. The following options are available:

  - **Yes**  

>   The customer is a company and, therefore, has a VAT ID number (business-to-business transaction).

Author: ```suggestion
  The customer is a company and, therefore, has a VAT ID number (B2B transaction).
```

  - **No**  
  The customer is a private individual and, therefore, has no VAT ID number (B2C transaction).

>   - **Any**

Author: ```suggestion
  - **Any**   
```

>   The customer is a private individual and, therefore, has no VAT ID number (business-to-customer transaction).

Author: ```suggestion
  The customer is a private individual and, therefore, has no VAT ID number (B2C transaction).
```

>   To match any of the previous two cases

Author: ```suggestion
  To match any of the previous two cases.
```

3. Click the *Country of origin* drop-down list and select the appropriate option. Use the drop-down list on the left to select a group of countries or the one on the right to select an individual country. As a group of countries, only the **EU - European Union** option is available. In the drop-down list of individual countries, all available countries in the system are displayed. When a group of countries is selected, the drop-down list on the right is locked.

4. Click the *Ship-to country* drop-down list and select the appropriate option. Use the drop-down list on the left to select a group of countries or the one on the right to select an individual country. As a group of countries, only the **EU - European Union** option is available. In the drop-down list of individual countries, all available countries in the system are displayed. When a group of countries is selected, the drop-down list on the right is locked.

5. If necessary, click the *Ship-to postcode* drop-down list and select the appropriate option. The following options are available:

  - **Range**  
  Select this option to specify a numeric postcode range, for example 27498 or 52001-52006.
  - **Regex**  

>   Select this option to specify a postcode containing alphanumeric characters with regular expressions, for example /^BT.*/ in case of Northern Ireland. The site https://regex101.com/ can be useful to test regular expressions.

Author: ```suggestion
  Select this option to specify a postcode containing alphanumeric characters with regular expressions, for example /^BT.*/ in case of Northern Ireland. The site https://regex101.com/ can be useful to test regular expressions.  
```
